docs/architecture/data-sources.md, before:

# Data Sources

Data sources allow developers easily integrate different data providers into the carbon aware SDK ([WattTime](https://www.wattime.org), [ElectricityMaps](https://www.electricitymaps.com/), etc) to be made available to all higher-level user-interfaces (WebAPI, CLI, etc), while avoiding the details of how to interact with any specific provider.

## Data Sources' Responsibility
Data sources act as the data ingestion tier for the SDK, handling the retrieval of data from a given data provider. They contain specific knowledge about the data provider they access, such as flags used in requests, fields that come back in responses, special use cases etc. They also handle any external calls that must be made to access the data provider. While helper clients can be built to handle these calls, only the data source should have access to, and knowledge of, that client.
- For example, the WattTimeDataSource has a reference to a private WattTimeClient within it's implementation. The WattTimeClient handles the HTTP GET/POST calls to WattTime and the data source invokes the client once it has processed the request, and then processes the response before returning a final result.

### Aggregator <-> Data Source Contract
In order for the SDK to support different data sources, there is a defined contract between the Aggregators and the Data tier. The Aggregator acts as the "Business Logic" of the application so it needs a standard way of requesting data from the data source and a standard response in return. This means that each data source is responsible for: 
- Pre-processing any arguments passed to it from the Aggregator to create the expected request for the data provider.
- Post-processing the data provider result to create the expected return type for the Aggregator

#### Post-Processing Caveat
Post-processing should only ensure the types are what is expected and to fix any inconsistencies or issues that may be known to that specific data source. This post-processing **should not** do any extra data operations beyond those required to fulfill the Aggregator request ( i.e., averaging, min/max ops etc.). In other words, the data source should only manipulate data for the aim of returning _valid*_ data in the boundaries requested by the Aggregator

\* What constitutes _valid_ data varies between data sources. It may be the case that some data sources don't handle time boundaries well so  extra processing may be required to ensure the data returned is what the aggregator expects assuming it was any data source and that those edge cases would be handled properly.

## Creating a New Data Source

Each new data source should be a new .NET project under the `CarbonAware.DataSources` namespace and corresponding directory. This project should have a reference to the `CarbonAware` project, and include the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` package. It should also be added to the solution. We have provided a command snippet below:

```sh
cd src
dotnet new classlib --name CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource -o CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src
dotnet sln add CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.csproj
dotnet add CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.csproj reference CarbonAware/src/CarbonAware.csproj
cd CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection
```

### Adding/Extending a Data Source Interface
Each new data source should extend from a generic data source interface. A data source interface defines all the parameters and functions that any data source that falls under it's purview must define/implement. By defining the interface, it allows the SDK to switch between the set of data sources seamlessly because they all share the same input functions and output types. 

Currently there are 2 data source interfaces defined - `IEmissionsDataSource` and `IForecastDataSource` - which provides functionality for retrieving actual and forecasted carbon intensity data respectively. A new data source interface should be defined only when there is a new general area of calculation that is being introduced to the SDK.

```csharp
using CarbonAware.Interfaces;
using CarbonAware.Model;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
namespace CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource;
public class MyNewDataSource: IEmissionsDataSource 
{
    ...
}
```

### Add Dependency Injection Configuration

The SDK uses dependency injection to load registered data sources based on set environment variables. For a data source to be registered, it need to have a Service Collection Extension defined. To do so, add a `Configuration` directory in your data source project and create a new ServiceCollectionExtensions file. We have provided a command snippet below:

```sh
cd src/CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src
mkdir Configuration
touch Configuration\ServiceCollectionExtensions.cs
```

Using the skeleton below, add the data source specific configuration and implementation instances to the service collection.

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions;
namespace CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Configuration;
public static class ServiceCollectionExtensions 
{
    public static void AddMyNewDataSource(this IServiceCollection services)
    {
        // ... register your data source with the IServiceCollection instance
    }
}
```

### Register the New Data Source
Once the data source's ServiceCollectionExtensions is configured, it can be registered as an available data source for the SDK by adding to the switch statement found in the AddDataSourceService function of [this file](../../src/CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.Registration\Configuration\ServiceCollectionExtensions.cs). Note you will need to add a new enum type to the `DataSourceType` [enum file](../../src/CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.Registration/Configuration/DataSourceType.cs) to reference in the switch statement.

```csharp
    switch (dataSourceType)
    {
        ...
        case DataSourceType.MyNewDataSourceEnum:
        {
            services.AddMyNewDataSource();
            break;
        }
        ...
    }
```

### Adding Tests
Each new data source is expected to come with a robust unit test suite that ensures that the main flows and edge cases are properly handled. This also ensures that the SDK can switch seamlessly between data sources and the experiences up the stack remains consistent and helpful to the user.

The unit tests should be added as a new project under the data source's test directory: `CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/test`. Be sure to include a reference to the data source's project and add it to the solution. We have provided a command snippet below:

```sh
cd src
dotnet new nunit --name CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Tests -o CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/test
dotnet sln CarbonAwareSDK.sln add CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/test/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Tests.csproj
cd CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource
dotnet add test/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Tests.csproj reference src/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.csproj
```
### Try it Out!
You are now ready to try out your new data source!  If you added a new `IEmissionsDataSource`, you can configure it using the `EmissionsDataSource` setting:

```bash
DataSources__EmissionsDataSource="MyNewDataSource"
DataSources__Configurations__MyNewDataSource__Proxy__UseProxy=true
```

Both the WebAPI and the CLI read the env variables in so once set, you can spin up either and send requests to get data from the new data source.

Commit message:

Move optimal method to common area

docs/architecture/data-sources.md, after:

# Data Sources

Data sources allow developers easily integrate different data providers into the carbon aware SDK ([WattTime](https://www.wattime.org), [ElectricityMaps](https://www.electricitymaps.com/), etc) to be made available to all higher-level user-interfaces (WebAPI, CLI, etc), while avoiding the details of how to interact with any specific provider.

## Data Sources' Responsibility
Data sources act as the data ingestion tier for the SDK, handling the retrieval of data from a given data provider. They contain specific knowledge about the data provider they access, such as flags used in requests, fields that come back in responses, special use cases etc. They also handle any external calls that must be made to access the data provider. While helper clients can be built to handle these calls, only the data source should have access to, and knowledge of, that client.
- For example, the WattTimeDataSource has a reference to a private WattTimeClient within it's implementation. The WattTimeClient handles the HTTP GET/POST calls to WattTime and the data source invokes the client once it has processed the request, and then processes the response before returning a final result.

### GSF Handler <-> Data Source Contract
In order for the SDK to support different data sources, there is a defined contract between the Handler and the Data tier. The handler acts as the "Business Logic" of the application so it needs a standard way of requesting data from the data source and a standard response in return. This means that each data source is responsible for: 
- Pre-processing any arguments passed to it from the handler to create the expected request for the data provider.
- Post-processing the data provider result to create the expected return type for the Handler.

Each handler is responsible for interacting on its own domain. For instance, EmissionsHandler can have a method `GetAverageCarbonIntensityAsync()` to pull EmissionsData data from a configured data source and calculate the average carbon intensity. ForecastHandler can have a method `GetCurrentForecastAsync()`, that will return a EmissionsForecast instance.

#### Post-Processing Caveat
Post-processing should only ensure the types are what is expected and to fix any inconsistencies or issues that may be known to that specific data source. This post-processing **should not** do any extra data operations beyond those required to fulfill the Handler request ( i.e., averaging, min/max ops etc.). In other words, the data source should only manipulate data for the aim of returning _valid*_ data in the boundaries requested by the Handler.

\* What constitutes _valid_ data varies between data sources. It may be the case that some data sources don't handle time boundaries well so  extra processing may be required to ensure the data returned is what the handler expects assuming it was any data source and that those edge cases would be handled properly.

## Creating a New Data Source

Each new data source should be a new .NET project under the `CarbonAware.DataSources` namespace and corresponding directory. This project should have a reference to the `CarbonAware` project, and include the `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` package. It should also be added to the solution. We have provided a command snippet below:

```sh
cd src
dotnet new classlib --name CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource -o CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src
dotnet sln add CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.csproj
dotnet add CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.csproj reference CarbonAware/src/CarbonAware.csproj
cd CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src
dotnet add package Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection
```

### Adding/Extending a Data Source Interface
Each new data source should extend from a generic data source interface. A data source interface defines all the parameters and functions that any data source that falls under it's purview must define/implement. By defining the interface, it allows the SDK to switch between the set of data sources seamlessly because they all share the same input functions and output types. 

Currently there are 2 data source interfaces defined - `IEmissionsDataSource` and `IForecastDataSource` - which provides functionality for retrieving actual and forecasted carbon intensity data respectively. A new data source interface should be defined only when there is a new general area of calculation that is being introduced to the SDK.

```csharp
using CarbonAware.Interfaces;
using CarbonAware.Model;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;
namespace CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource;
public class MyNewDataSource: IEmissionsDataSource 
{
    ...
}
```

### Add Dependency Injection Configuration

The SDK uses dependency injection to load registered data sources based on set environment variables. For a data source to be registered, it need to have a Service Collection Extension defined. To do so, add a `Configuration` directory in your data source project and create a new ServiceCollectionExtensions file. We have provided a command snippet below:

```sh
cd src/CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/src
mkdir Configuration
touch Configuration\ServiceCollectionExtensions.cs
```

Using the skeleton below, add the data source specific configuration and implementation instances to the service collection.

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Extensions;
namespace CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Configuration;
public static class ServiceCollectionExtensions 
{
    public static void AddMyNewDataSource(this IServiceCollection services)
    {
        // ... register your data source with the IServiceCollection instance
    }
}
```

### Register the New Data Source
Once the data source's ServiceCollectionExtensions is configured, it can be registered as an available data source for the SDK by adding to the switch statement found in the AddDataSourceService function of [this file](../../src/CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.Registration\Configuration\ServiceCollectionExtensions.cs). Note you will need to add a new enum type to the `DataSourceType` [enum file](../../src/CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.Registration/Configuration/DataSourceType.cs) to reference in the switch statement.

```csharp
    switch (dataSourceType)
    {
        ...
        case DataSourceType.MyNewDataSourceEnum:
        {
            services.AddMyNewDataSource();
            break;
        }
        ...
    }
```

### Adding Tests
Each new data source is expected to come with a robust unit test suite that ensures that the main flows and edge cases are properly handled. This also ensures that the SDK can switch seamlessly between data sources and the experiences up the stack remains consistent and helpful to the user.

The unit tests should be added as a new project under the data source's test directory: `CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/test`. Be sure to include a reference to the data source's project and add it to the solution. We have provided a command snippet below:

```sh
cd src
dotnet new nunit --name CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Tests -o CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/test
dotnet sln CarbonAwareSDK.sln add CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource/test/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Tests.csproj
cd CarbonAware.DataSources/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource
dotnet add test/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.Tests.csproj reference src/CarbonAware.DataSources.MyNewDataSource.csproj
```
### Try it Out!
You are now ready to try out your new data source!  If you added a new `IEmissionsDataSource`, you can configure it using the `EmissionsDataSource` setting:

```bash
DataSources__EmissionsDataSource="MyNewDataSource"
DataSources__Configurations__MyNewDataSource__Proxy__UseProxy=true
```

Both the WebAPI and the CLI read the env variables in so once set, you can spin up either and send requests to get data from the new data source.
