samples/helmexample/README.md, before:

# How-To: Deploy to AKS using Helm

## Setup Resource Group

  1. Create a new Kubernetes service following the default settings
  1. Create a container registry
  1. Create a key vault

## Connect to the Kubernetes service

Open the kuberenetes service within the azure portal and spin up the cloud shell. The following commands (plus some other useful ones) can be found by clicking the connect button on the top ribbon

To set the right subscription for the service, run: 
```
az account set --subscription <subscription-id>
``` 
To give credentials for the resource group to the kubernetes service, run:
```
az aks get-credentials --resource-group <resource-group-name> --name <kubernetes-service-name>
``` 

## Push an image to the container registry
The following steps illustrates how to push a webservice image in order to be deployed in AKS using ACR (Azure Container Registry).
1. Build a `published` image using for instancee the following [Dockerfile](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/docker/build-container?tabs=windows#create-the-dockerfile)
    ```sh
    docker build -t myapp:v1 .
    ```
1. Login into ACR using the username and password credentials that are needed in order to push. See Access Keys section of the ACR Portal.
    ```sh
    docker login <acrloginserver>.azurecr.io
    ```
1. Tag the image following ACR tagging scheme
    ```sh
    docker tag myapp <acrloginserver>.azurecr.io/myapp:v1
    ```
1. Push to ACR
    ```sh
    docker push <acrloginserver>.azurecr.io/myapp:v1
    ```

After these steps, using Azure's Portal ACR resource an image should be available under repositories following the naming convention mentioned above.

### Give cluster access to ACR
To attach the ACR to the cluster so that the image can be accessed, run 
```
az aks update -n <cluster-name> -g <resource-group-name> --attach-acr <acr-name>
```

## Create a new Helm chart (optional)
The easiest way to create a helm chart is to use a VSCode dev container and when you set it up, ensure to set it up with the latest `debian` OS. For add-on packages, make sure to select the `azure CLI` and `kubernetes-helm` options.

Once you've got the dev container open, run `helm` to ensure you have the helm CLI running properly. Then you can create a new helm chart by running
```
helm create <chart-name>
```

## Setting up the Helm chart
Once you've got your helm chart open (whether from scratch or existing), the main files you will likely be working with are `Chart.yaml`, `values.yaml`, and `deployment.yaml`.

### Chart.yaml
In `Chart.yaml`, we won't need to make any changes but make note of the chart `name`, as you will need to reference it in commands later on.

### Values.yaml
In `values.yaml`, we need to change a couple fields. In the `image` section, you will need to set
* The `repository` field to be `<acr-login-server>/<image-repository>`
* The `pullPolicy` field to be `IfNotPresent` (pulls a new image if not present) or `Always` (pulls a new image every time).
* The `tag` field if you need a particuar tag version

Set the `nameOverride` and `fullNameOverride` fields to make it easier to reference your helm chart, and ensure they are not the same.

In the `serviceAccount` section, ensure that
* The `name` field is set to the name of the helm chart from `Chart.yaml`.

### Deployment.yaml
In `deployment.yaml`, we will need to adjust the `livenessProbe` and `readinessProbe` that the helm chart will ping to ensure the sdk is ready. As a default, you should set the path to `/health` unless there are other endpoints added that can be pinged.

## Connecting to AKS from Helm
To run any of the following commands, you need to be logged into the azure cli. Run `az login` and follow the prompts to get access to your azure subscriptions

With the current setup, Helm is not directly accessing ACR to pull the image, put instead is going through the cluster (which is why we gave the cluster authorized access to the ACR in the earlier section). If you do need helm to access your ACR for any reason, you will need to register it and login with the following 
```
helm registry login <acr-login-server> \
  --username <acr-username> \
  --password <acr-password>
```
The neccessary credentials can be found by opening your ACR in the Azure portal and going to credentials.

### Installing your helm chart
To install your helm chart, you should run 
```
helm install <fullNameOverride> <helm-chart-name>/
```

### Deploying your helm chart
If the installation was successful, helm should give you a console out message for your to copy and paste to deploy the chart. We've replicated below for quick reference (you will need to fill in `nameOverride` and `fullNameOverride`):
```
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=<nameOverride>,app.kubernetes.io/instance=<fullNameOverride>" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
export CONTAINER_PORT=$(kubectl get pod --namespace default $POD_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.containers[0].ports[0].containerPort}")
echo "Visit http://127.0.0.1:8080 to use your application"
kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 8080:$CONTAINER_PORT
```
If the deployment works properly, you should be able to visit the link they provide and use it to query the SDK

## Troubleshooting

### Error installing the helm chart
If  you get `Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: cannot re-use a name that is still in use` when you tried to install the helm chart, it means there is still an instance of that chart installed. If you started this instance, you can simply skip the install step and continue. If you're unsure that it's the right installation, or you've made changes, first run `helm uninstall <fullNameOverride>`. Once it's uninstalled, you can redo the helm install step.

### Error pulling image
If there is an issue pulling the image from ACR, the pod will deploy but will fail to start. If you check the status of the pod (using the kubectl commands below in the azure portal) you will see the `ImagePullBackOff` status and a note that the pod has not started. This may be for a couple reasons:

1. The cluster isn't authorized to access the ACR registry. Ensure you've run [this command](###give-cluster-access-to-acr).
2. The image reference in helm is incorrect. Review the Values.yaml [section](###values.yaml) to ensure you've got the right reference in the image repository field.

### Error deploying the helm chart
If you get an error deploying the helm chart and have ensured the image is pulling properly, one possible error may be with the liveliness and readiness probes. If those are failing, the deployment will fail to start properly. Ensure that the paths provided in the `deployment.yaml` file are valid and that the sdk can actual spin up correctly.

### Useful kubectl commands to check on cluster

* List all deployments in all namespaces: `kubectl get deployments --all-namespaces=true`
* List details about a specific deployment: `kubectl describe deployment <deployment-name> --namespace <namespace-name>`
* Delete a specific deployment: `kubectl delete deployment <deployment-name>`
* List pods: `kubectl get pods`
* Check on a specific pod: `kubectl describe pod <pod-name>`
* Get logs on a specific pod: `kubectl logs <pod-name>`
* Delete a specific pod: `kubectl delete pod <pod-name>`

## References
Helm 3 docs - https://helm.sh/docs/
Helm 3 image docs - https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/pods/#images

MS Docs: Creating an ingress controller in AKS - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/ingress-basic?tabs=azure-cli

Github Issue: deploying a container from ACR to AKS - https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues/33430

MS Docs: Authenticate with ACR from AKS - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/cluster-container-registry-integration?tabs=azure-cli#access-with-kubernetes-secret

ContainIQ: Troubleshooting ImagePullBackOff Error - https://www.containiq.com/post/kubernetes-imagepullbackoff

Commit message:

adding another error to readme

samples/helmexample/README.md, after:

# How-To: Deploy to AKS using Helm

## Setup Resource Group

  1. Create a new Kubernetes service following the default settings
  1. Create a container registry
  1. Create a key vault 

## Push an image to the container registry
The following steps illustrates how to push a webservice image in order to be deployed in AKS using ACR (Azure Container Registry).
1. Build a `published` image using for instancee the following [Dockerfile](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/docker/build-container?tabs=windows#create-the-dockerfile)
    ```sh
    docker build -t myapp:v1 .
    ```
1. Login into ACR using the username and password credentials that are needed in order to push. See Access Keys section of the ACR Portal.
    ```sh
    docker login <acrloginserver>.azurecr.io
    ```
1. Tag the image following ACR tagging scheme
    ```sh
    docker tag myapp <acrloginserver>.azurecr.io/myapp:v1
    ```
1. Push to ACR
    ```sh
    docker push <acrloginserver>.azurecr.io/myapp:v1
    ```

After these steps, using Azure's Portal ACR resource an image should be available under repositories following the naming convention mentioned above.

### Give cluster access to ACR
To attach the ACR to the cluster so that the image can be accessed, run 
```
az aks update -n <cluster-name> -g <resource-group-name> --attach-acr <acr-name>
```

## Create a new Helm chart (optional)
The easiest way to create a helm chart is to use a VSCode dev container and when you set it up, ensure to set it up with the latest `debian` OS. For add-on packages, make sure to select the `azure CLI` and `kubernetes-helm` options.

Once you've got the dev container open, run `helm` to ensure you have the helm CLI running properly. Then you can create a new helm chart by running
```
helm create <chart-name>
```

## Setting up the Helm chart
Once you've got your helm chart open (whether from scratch or existing), the main files you will likely be working with are `Chart.yaml`, `values.yaml`, and `deployment.yaml`.

### Chart.yaml
In `Chart.yaml`, we won't need to make any changes but make note of the chart `name`, as you will need to reference it in commands later on.

### Values.yaml
In `values.yaml`, we need to change a couple fields. In the `image` section, you will need to set
* The `repository` field to be `<acr-login-server>/<image-repository>`
* The `pullPolicy` field to be `IfNotPresent` (pulls a new image if not present) or `Always` (pulls a new image every time).
* The `tag` field if you need a particuar tag version

Set the `nameOverride` and `fullNameOverride` fields to make it easier to reference your helm chart, and ensure they are not the same.

In the `serviceAccount` section, ensure that
* The `name` field is set to the name of the helm chart from `Chart.yaml`.

### Deployment.yaml
In `deployment.yaml`, we will need to adjust the `livenessProbe` and `readinessProbe` that the helm chart will ping to ensure the sdk is ready. As a default, you should set the path to `/health` unless there are other endpoints added that can be pinged.

## Connecting to AKS from Helm
To connect to AKS you need to be logged into the azure. Run `az login` and follow the prompts to get access to your azure subscriptions. 

To set the right subscription for the service, run: 
```
az account set --subscription <subscription-id>
``` 
To give credentials for the resource group to the kubernetes service, run:
```
az aks get-credentials --resource-group <resource-group-name> --name <kubernetes-service-name>
```
With these two commands, helm should be setup to access AKS and be able to deploy on it. With the current setup, Helm is not directly accessing the ACR to pull the image, put instead is going through the cluster (which is why we gave the cluster authorized access to the ACR in the earlier section). If you do need helm to access your ACR for any reason, you will need to register it and login with the following 
```
helm registry login <acr-login-server> \
  --username <acr-username> \
  --password <acr-password>
```
The neccessary credentials can be found by opening your ACR in the Azure portal and going to credentials.

### Installing your helm chart
To install your helm chart, you should run 
```
helm install <fullNameOverride> <helm-chart-name>/
```
(If you run into an error, see [the troubleshooting section](##troubleshooting) below.)

### Deploying your helm chart
If the installation was successful, helm should give you a console out message for your to copy and paste to deploy the chart. We've replicated below for quick reference (you will need to fill in `nameOverride` and `fullNameOverride`):
```
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=<nameOverride>,app.kubernetes.io/instance=<fullNameOverride>" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
export CONTAINER_PORT=$(kubectl get pod --namespace default $POD_NAME -o jsonpath="{.spec.containers[0].ports[0].containerPort}")
echo "Visit http://127.0.0.1:8080 to use your application"
kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 8080:$CONTAINER_PORT
```
If the deployment works properly, you should be able to visit the link they provide and use it to query the SDK

## Troubleshooting

### Error connecting to the kubernetes service
If you get `Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: Kubernetes cluster unreachable: Get "http://localhost:8080/version": dial tcp 127.0.0.1:8080: connect: connection refused` that means that helm cannot connect to kubernetes. Helm connects to kuberentes either via the $KUBECONFIG env variable, or (if it's not set) looks for the default location kubectl files are location (`~/.kube/config`). This may occur the first time to try connecting the helm chart or if you clear the files/variables. To fix, follow the cli commands in the [connecting to AKS](##connecting-to-aks-from-helm) section and that should automatically generate the proper config files.

### Error installing the helm chart
If  you get `Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: cannot re-use a name that is still in use` when you tried to install the helm chart, it means there is still an instance of that chart installed. If you started this instance, you can simply skip the install step and continue. If you're unsure that it's the right installation, or you've made changes, first run `helm uninstall <fullNameOverride>`. Once it's uninstalled, you can redo the helm install step.

### Error pulling image
If there is an issue pulling the image from ACR, the pod will deploy but will fail to start. If you check the status of the pod (using the kubectl commands below in the azure portal) you will see the `ImagePullBackOff` status and a note that the pod has not started. This may be for a couple reasons:

1. The cluster isn't authorized to access the ACR registry. Ensure you've run [this command](###give-cluster-access-to-acr).
2. The image reference in helm is incorrect. Review the Values.yaml [section](###values.yaml) to ensure you've got the right reference in the image repository field.

### Error deploying the helm chart
If you get an error deploying the helm chart and have ensured the image is pulling properly, one possible error may be with the liveliness and readiness probes. If those are failing, the deployment will fail to start properly. Ensure that the paths provided in the `deployment.yaml` file are valid and that the sdk can actual spin up correctly.

### Useful kubectl commands to check on cluster

* List all deployments in all namespaces: `kubectl get deployments --all-namespaces=true`
* List details about a specific deployment: `kubectl describe deployment <deployment-name> --namespace <namespace-name>`
* Delete a specific deployment: `kubectl delete deployment <deployment-name>`
* List pods: `kubectl get pods`
* Check on a specific pod: `kubectl describe pod <pod-name>`
* Get logs on a specific pod: `kubectl logs <pod-name>`
* Delete a specific pod: `kubectl delete pod <pod-name>`

## References
Helm 3 docs - https://helm.sh/docs/
Helm 3 image docs - https://helm.sh/docs/chart_best_practices/pods/#images

MS Docs: Creating an ingress controller in AKS - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/ingress-basic?tabs=azure-cli

Github Issue: deploying a container from ACR to AKS - https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues/33430

MS Docs: Authenticate with ACR from AKS - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/cluster-container-registry-integration?tabs=azure-cli#access-with-kubernetes-secret

ContainIQ: Troubleshooting ImagePullBackOff Error - https://www.containiq.com/post/kubernetes-imagepullbackoff
